Breaking printf in the context of a project like minitalk usually means one of two things: either it's undefined behavior/crashing your server, or it's causing a timing and synchronization bug where signals get lost.

Because minitalk is heavily reliant on fast UNIX signals (SIGUSR1 / SIGUSR2), putting printf inside your signal handler is actually a ticking time bomb.

Here are the two primary ways printf will break your code.

1. Breaking via Signal Interference (Non-Reentrant Functions)
The absolute golden rule of UNIX signal handlers is: You must only call async-signal-safe functions. printf is not safe to call inside a signal handler.

Why it breaks:
printf uses a global internal buffer and locks under the hood to manage data. Imagine this nightmare scenario:

Your server is in the middle of executing a normal printf in your main loop to display a status message.

Halfway through that printf execution, a SIGUSR1 signal arrives from the client.

The CPU immediately pauses main and jumps straight into your sig_handler.

Inside sig_handler, your code tries to call printf again.

Because the first printf was interrupted mid-calculation, the internal buffer is locked or corrupted. The second printf will try to access it, resulting in a deadlock (your server freezes completely) or a Segmentation Fault (an instant crash).

The Fix: Replace any printf inside your signal handler with write(1, &i, 1);. The write system call is completely safe and won't lock up or corrupt your memory when interrupted.

2. Breaking via Buffering (Missing Data)
Even if you aren't crashing, printf might make it look like your code is broken because nothing is printing to the screen.

printf uses buffered output. It doesn't actually send characters to your terminal the exact millisecond you call it. Instead, it hoards the characters in a temporary memory bin and waits until:

It sees a newline character (\n).

The buffer gets completely full.

You explicitly tell it to empty itself.

If you are using printf("%c", i); inside your handler every time a character finishes, your terminal will look like it's completely frozen. It won't display anything until the client sends a massive amount of text or closes.

The Fix: If you must use printf for debugging outside the handler, you have to manually force the buffer to empty itself right after the call:

C
printf("%c", i);
fflush(stdout); // 💡 Forces the buffer to empty onto the screen immediately!
Summary Checklist for Minitalk Debugging
If you are currently debugging your code and it's acting weird:

Remove all printf calls from inside your sig_handler.

Use write(STDOUT_FILENO, ...) for server outputs inside handlers.

If using printf in main, always append \n or use fflush(stdout).